The purpose of my final project was offer a new perspective into baseball statistics for the liberty league. On the liberty league website, there is simply an excel-style sheet of stats that can sometimes be hard to see the differences from player-to-player or team-to-team. I wanted to visualize differences in players' and teams' stats in an efficient, clean manner. To do this, I utilized statistics from each of the 10 Liberty League teams' athletic pages and scraped them onto R.

There are lots of things necessary in order for a data visualization to be considered "good". The data used must be used ethically, the ink-to-data ratio must be balanced, axes must be picked appropriately to accurately convey information, and there must be some measure of variability involved. I believe I performed all of these prerequisites effectively. In the scatterplots I created, the user can choose the axes they want and for each plot there is a smoother to show the trend. There is also a grey surrounding area measuring variability. 

Lastly, in all of the charts and visualizations I created the data was used ethically. I only omitted hitters with less than 10 AB and pitchers with less than 5 IP. This was necessary in order to ensure that stat leaders were not people who performed well with an extremely small sample size. I also denoted this above the code for the shinyApp so I to not hide anything from the reader.

To close the write up, I am going to discuss some further work that could be done with the data. In the future, I would like to create my own measurement of player value specific to the Liberty League (similar to WAR in MLB). I would also like to visualize player hits in a spray chart pattern in further work; we just do not have the data at the moment. Also, I could show variability for the individual statistic leaderboard part of the shinyApp simply because the sample size was just 1 (the player themselves.)